Father, we thank you for the reminder that you and the Father are one.
And the reminder that your heart, your prayer, your greatest desire is that your people would be one like that.
And so Father, we pray for this teaching series.
This is taught in churches across South Florida today.
We pray for the outreaches that are happening all through the city as churches stand next to other churches and volunteer and serve in schools.
and in detention centers, serving those who are lonely, those who are afraid.
And God, we pray you're blessing on those churches, Father, First Baptist and Coral Ridge, Riverside, City Rev and Coastal Community and Church by the Glades, Vertical Church.
God, we think of all the churches in this city who continue to preach the gospel and lift up the name of Jesus that you would bless them and fill their sanctuaries.
And Lord,
help us to be poured out into our city in a way that people could know your great love.
And we pray this altogether in Jesus' name.
Amen.
What is love?
It's a question people have been asking for centuries, and I don't know if you know this or not, but the answer to that question, what is love, was answered in January of 1993 by a one-hit wonder named
How do I?
Anybody?
Listen to the depth of these lyrics.
And the answer to the question, what is love?
What is love?
Oh, baby, don't hurt me.
Don't hurt me.
No more.
Okay, you got this.
Oh, no.
Wait.
Oh, baby, don't hurt me.
Don't hurt me.
It gets better.
No, I don't know why you're not there.
I give you my love, but you don't care.
So what is right and what is wrong?
Give me a sign.
What is love?
Baby, don't hurt me.
No more.
Now, I've got a curious question.
If for centuries people have been trying to figure out what is love, I've listened to that song dozens of times.
I still have no idea what they're talking about.
In fact, if you think about every song that's written about love, every movie, every rom-com, every book, as you lean in and look, it's still sort of a mystery like, what is love?
Is it what I take?
Is it what I feel?
Is it what I do?
But aren't you thankful that we have God's Word?
And then we can know the answer to the question that everyone wants to know, what is love and John, the disciple of Jesus in a single sentence answers the question.
1 John 3, 16, this is how we know what love is.
Jesus Christ laid down his life for us.
If you want to know what love is, you have to look no further than the cross of Jesus, the Son of God laying down his life for people.
And 1 John 3, 16,
says almost identically what John 3 16 says, the same author, John says this, God so loved the world that he gave his one and only son that whoever believes in him doesn't have to perish but can have everlasting life.
This is what we call the good news of the gospel.
Now, how do you know your love?
Well, this is not just a word that's spoken because talk can be cheap.
I love you, I love you, I love you.
No, it's demonstrated.
So here's how Paul would say it.
Very rarely will anyone die for a righteous person, though for a good person someone might possibly dare to die.
But God demonstrates his own love for us in this.
While we were still sinners, Christ died for us.
God demonstrates his love.
It's not just words.
And when does he demonstrate his love?
Not when we're at our best, but when we're at our worst.
I mean, Paul says, you know, there are times where people would die for another person.
A husband would die to fight, to protect his wife, or a mom would die protecting her kids.
Or you might even lay down your life for a good friend.
Someone who you consider righteous or worthy of you sacrificing your life.
But that's not when Jesus died for us.
Jesus died for us while we were still sinners.
Who dies for someone?
When they're at, they're worse.
Well, here's the thing.
Sinners are all that there are.
Jesus came to love and pursue sinners.
If you're a sinner in the room, raise your hand.
Okay, good.
A good self-awareness check here.
Listen, Christ died not to say if good people are righteous people or the people who needed it.
He came to die for everyone.
All of us are sinners.
Our sin is separated us from God.
Sin is simply us saying to God,
I hear what you say, I'm gonna do it my way.
I got this, thank you.
That sense of independence, that sense of autonomy, no one's the boss of me.
That sense of like, the things that he says to me that I agree with, I'm good, but the things that I don't agree with, I'm gonna do on my own.
That is sin, by its very nature.
What I do with my body, what I do with my money, how I think about the world.
And that sin creates this separation.
This is the precisely the moment when Jesus died for us at our worst.
And so I want us to think about a few ideas of what this love looks like.
And here's the first one.
Jesus' love for you is costly.
What is love?
It's a sacrifice.
It's a laying down of his life.
Think about this.
The infinite God came from heaven to earth.
He came from a place where angels were worshiping, where he experienced glory and comfort.
And he came down to the dirt and dust of earth.
He lived as a refugee.
He was ridiculed.
He was disappointed, he was rejected, he was mocked.
Instead of praise, was criticism, was slander.
Instead of worship, abuse, hit, spit on, mocked, denied, betrayed.
He drank the cup of God's wrath for us.
You see, when we think about what it means to love like Jesus, we can never love like Jesus until we realize how much we've been loved by Jesus.
We have to be able to absorb it, not just here, but here.
And so when we think about Jesus' love for us as costly, I want you to think about this idea.
It may be a very bad thing that I needed God to die for me, but it's a very good thing, amazing thing to think about the fact that he thought I was worth it.
Think about that for a moment.
It may be a very bad thing that
I needed God to die for me.
But it's a very good and amazing and wonderful thing that he thought I was worth it.
And that's all of us.
Somehow God thinks you're worth dying for.
Somehow God thinks I'm dying for, and not in my best mode, but in my worst moment.
And this cost him everything.
And when you realize you're loved like this, that in your worst moment, God
send his son Jesus for you.
It gives you the sense of joy, the sense of security, the sense of no matter what happens in my life, I belong to God.
And the more as Christians we can think about this and meditate on it, the more that love that's been poured on us as we receive it deep in our heart, then we can pour it out and others.
And this is what the gospel teaches us.
And so I want you to think for a moment, I'm gonna spend a few moments.
How has God lavished his love on you?
Because here's what John writes in the next chapter.
See, we see what great love the father's lavished on us that we should be called the children of God.
And that is what we are.
So let's just stop.
In church.
And let's just think, how is God lavished his love on us?
And what is it costing?
And Ephesians chapter one, if you just want to write that little note or find that place about it, you read this when you get home,
Paul writes this like run-on sentence about the praise of the glory of God's grace has been lavished on us.
He says, you know, before the foundation of the world, God chose us.
God chose you.
God didn't just choose you.
He adopted you.
If you're in Christ, you are the adopted son or daughter of God.
Not because he had to, not because he felt sad for you.
Ephesians says, it was his pleasure.
and his will to choose you and to adopt you.
Not only did he choose you or adopt you before you were ever born, before the world was ever made, he forgave you of your sin and redeemed your life in the sending of his son, Jesus, to die in your place.
And that's not all.
Then he includes you in the family of God.
Then he seals you with his Holy Spirit as a deposit, guaranteeing what is to come.
And then he gives you a purpose in this world
that you will celebrate into all eternity.
Has God lavished his love on you?
The answer is yes, he has.
And why don't we just take a moment and just thank him for the lavish love that he's poured on us, these people.
Now day to day, this is not something we think a lot about.
And sometimes we need the help of other Christians to help us grapple with this idea.
Because somewhere in our brain, we're like, I don't know if that love is real.
It sounds too good to be true that God would love me that personally.
His sacrifice to me would be that costly.
Or for some of you, you're like, I believe the love is real for them and them and them.
I just don't think I'm worthy of it because I've done too many things.
I've sinned against God too many times.
I've broken my promises.
God, if you do this, I will so many times that I think He's sick of me praying,
hearing me talk, and so I just sort of live at this place where God's love is for everybody else, but it's not for me.
And this is why, this is why Paul invites Christians to get together and to talk about the love of God, because we are forgetful people, and we can sort of rationalize why the love of God doesn't apply to us, and then we live in this less than place that God has not intended for us.
And so Ephesians 3 says this, this is how Christians have this opportunity to gather together.
He says this, I pray that you being rooted and established in love may have power together with all the Lord's holy people to grasp how wide and long and high and deep is the love of Christ.
And to know this love that surpasses knowledge, that you may be filled to the measure of all of the fullness of God.
Christians, when you get together and you should get together, take a moment and just stop and think about the love of God and talk about it.
How high is the love of God?
How wide is the love of God?
How long is the love of God?
How deep is the love of God in your life, in my life?
And as we share these stories, then maybe together we will grasp, maybe, just grasp a bit
of what he calls a love that transcends knowledge, a love that surpasses understanding, a love that doesn't make any sense at all.
Because the one theological question I cannot answer when people ask me is, Doug, why did God send his son Jesus to die from me?
I have no idea.
But I'm glad he did.
It may be a very bad thing that I need God to die from me.
But it's a very good thing, a very wonderful thing.
a very amazing thing that he thought I was worth it.
And this is the love that doesn't make any sense that we have been invited into.
And if we are deeply loved, listen, if we know we are loved, then we're able to love because loved people can love people.
This week I got a note.
And I got a few notes this week as we celebrated 40 years and this one just sort of jumped
into my brain.
Dear Doug, I hope you know how loved you are.
Simple line, but I put this card down and I went through my week, I just thought, how loved am I?
I mean, I'm loved by my wife and I'm loved by my kids, I'm loved by my friends, I'm loved by my family, I'm loved by many people in this church, but what if
What if my whole life blew up?
And I messed my whole life up.
And now people didn't love me anymore, but I still be loved.
You know the answer to that question?
Because you are deeply loved by God.
You will always be deeply loved by God.
This is how high and long and wide is the love of God that surpasses understanding.
And when you know, you are deeply loved unconditionally by God.
It changes the way.
You love other people.
That idea of love can go from here to here.
You know what I'm talking about.
When you knew the idea of love, you knew it here, but when you actually fell in love, when you saw the birth of your son or your daughter, or you were at that moment in your wedding day, and you experienced love in a whole new way.
When you experienced that type of love, it changes the type of person that you are.
And so John in 1 John 3 says, this type of love
That's demonstrated by God while it changes the person.
Look back at me at 1 John 3 16.
This is how we know what love is that Jesus Christ laid down his life for us.
Now watch the response.
And so we ought to lay down our lives for our brothers and sisters.
If anyone has material possessions and sees a brother or sister in need, but has no pity on them, how can the love of God be in that person?
Dear children, let us not love with words or speech, but with actions and in truth.
What is John saying?
John's saying, love to people, love people.
If you've received the love of God, if God has demonstrated His love, not just with the words, but with action, you can't help but give it away.
You can't keep it to yourself.
If you've kept the love of God to yourself, like, thank you Jesus for dying from me and I get to go to heaven one day and I'm just gonna just hang out and wait until you take me.
Then you have not fully understood God's love.
Because when God's love gets inside of you,
You can't help but pass it along to someone else, right?
This is what John is talking about.
So when you see someone in need, you're like, how can I help them like God helped me?
Help me not to say, love you, love you, love you, and watch people who are in need just walk by.
Help me to walk toward them like Jesus walked toward me.
And so I want to give you the second big idea of what the gospel does, the goodness of Jesus does.
And Jesus' love for you demands a response.
You can't contain it.
It overflows out of you.
Jesus would say, if there's anyone who's thirsty, come to me and out of you will overflow rivers of living water, the love of God in and out of flowing out of you.
You can't contain the love of God.
It spills out of you if you've received it in its depth and its reality.
And so I'm gonna show you how Jesus does that, how he offers his love to two people,
And Luke chapter seven and two different responses to the love of God and how different those responses are.
Luke chapter seven, verse 36, this is one of the scandalous stories of Jesus.
So Jesus invited to a party.
Jesus is becoming more and more popular among the people and the religious leaders want to check him out.
So they invite him, a man named Simon invites him to his house, a house of all these religious leaders, these Pharisees.
And they're going to check Jesus out because Jesus has been known in the verses before to go hang out with prostitutes and tax collectors.
And well, the religious people are no upstanding prophet, hangs out with people like that.
And so we're going to invite him and get to know him a little bit.
And so that's the context of this story.
Luke 7 verse 36.
Now, when one of the Pharisees invited Jesus to have dinner with him, he went to the Pharisees house and reclined at the table.
A woman in that town who lived a sinful life learned that Jesus was eating at the Pharisee's house, so she came there with an alabaster jar of perfume.
As she stood behind him at his feet weeping, she began to wet his feet with her tears.
Then she wiped him with her hair and kissed them and poured perfume on him.
When the Pharisee who had invited him saw this, he said to himself, if this man were a prophet,
He would know who's touching him and what kind of woman she is, that she is a sinner.
Jesus is invited to a party.
He sits down with all these religious leaders.
And they're having a conversation, the party's going on.
And then a woman, an uninvited guest shows up.
This woman crashes the party.
Now this woman is described as a sinful, a very sinful woman, a notorious sinful woman, which is code for she's a prostitute.
And so imagine, imagine a prostitute coming to a dinner of religious leaders, all the righteous people in the city.
Imagine how hard that was for her to see the judging eyes, that the judging looks, but something compelled this woman to come.
Maybe it's because she knew that
The only way to get rid of this guilt that she was carrying, the shame that she felt was to get to Jesus.
And she was at such a desperate point, at such a rock bottom that it didn't matter what anyone else thought.
And so she comes into the party and she stands behind Jesus, he's reclined at the table, his feet are behind him.
And you can tell very clearly she has no plan because she just starts to cry.
And I can imagine those tears are falling down on his feet and now she's like, oh, what do I do?
I don't have a towel to dry his feet and I don't know what I'm doing.
And she pulls down her hair, which if you're a woman in the Jewish culture and you're pulled down your hair, you don't do that in public, especially like this.
And she bends down and she weeps over his feet and she begins to wipe his feet off with her hair.
And then it begins to pour this expensive perfume on his feet.
And I don't know why.
She was crying, the Bible doesn't say, but I could guess.
Maybe it was just a sense of shame and guilt.
Maybe it was, she remembered when she was a little girl.
And no little girl says, when I grew up, I want to be a prostitute, I want to sell my body.
I want to experience shame.
Something happened in her life that put her on that track.
Maybe she thought about the perfume that she wore around her neck, how she earned that.
Or maybe it was a dowry from her own dad, and she felt a deep disappointment.
I don't know why she was crying, but all I know that she focused this attention and loved, she poured out all that she had on him, and it was this beautiful and scandalous moment.
I remember talking to my son as he was driving to school one day, and I said, hey, I'm gonna read this story.
Tell me one word that describes this scene.
And my son who was in high school said, awkward.
This is an awkward moment.
Think about it.
You're at a social dinner.
A woman who's not invited comes in and starts crying.
All the conversation stops.
All the forks hit the plates.
Everyone's like, oh, wow.
And Simon, the man who's throwing the party, he's judging Jesus and the woman at the same time.
First, he's judging Jesus.
If Jesus was a prophet, he would not let a woman like that
touch him and he's judging the woman.
A woman like that should not be in this place.
So, just read you real quick.
How many sinners are here today?
Jesus loves and pursues sinners because sinners are all that there are.
This woman knows she's a sinner.
There's no lack of self-awareness that she is deeply sinful and flawed and filled with guilt and shame.
But Simon doesn't have the self-awareness to see that he is also a sinner.
You see, if you're a judgmental person, it's because you lack self-awareness, because sinners are all there are, and we're all sinners.
So when we judge another person, and we think we're superior to them, we've deceived ourselves because Jesus came to save sinners, all of us are sinners.
And Simon, he hasn't grasped this, and so he's judging, he's feeling self-righteous, he's feeling superior.
And when you feel superior to someone,
It's very difficult to love them.
Anybody know what I'm talking about?
If you feel superior to someone, you might fear them or hate them, but you definitely can't love them.
So Simon is struggling with loving Jesus and loving this woman because he lacks self-awareness, because he's self-righteous, because he feels superior.
And so Jesus sees all this, he knows all this.
He sees the awkward moment, he sees the scandalous moment, and Jesus decides to do what he does best.
to get past Simon's defense mechanisms and tell him a story.
And so Jesus says this, verse 40, Simon, I have something to tell you.
Tell me teacher, he said, two people owed money to a certain money lender.
One owed him 500 denari, the other 50.
And neither of them had the money to pay him back.
So he forgave the debts of both.
Now, which of them will love him more?
Simon replied, I suppose,
The one who had the bigger debt forgiven.
You have judged correctly, Jesus said.
Then he turned to the woman and said to Simon, do you see this woman?
I came into your house and you did not give me any water for my feet, but she wet my feet with her tears and wiped them with her hair.
You did not give me a kiss, but this woman from the time I entered has not stopped kissing my feet.
You did not put oil on my head, but she has poured perfume on my feet.
Therefore I tell you, her many sins have been forgiven, as her great love has shown.
But whoever has been forgiven little loves little.
What is Jesus?
Say, what is Jesus saying?
Simon, I want to tell you a story.
A person's forgiven 500 days, wages are 50. Who's going to love more?
Oh, the one that's forgiven more loves more.
Is that woman more sinful than Simon?
Will in Simon's eyes, certainly yes, but in God's eyes?
No, if you're a sinner, raise your hand.
God loves sinners, sinners, all of there are.
God doesn't grade you.
You're a great A sinner, a great B sinner, a great C sinner, a great D sinner.
And the great A sinner's went down on the great D sinner's.
Now, that's not how it works.
A sinner is a sinner separated from God.
That's all there is.
But Simon has created his own mind that he has less to be forgiven of because he pays his taxes, he loves his wife, he raises his kids, he's a good citizen.
But a woman like that, she's the one who really needs Jesus, a lack of self-awareness, leads to a feeling of superiority which leads Simon to judge this woman.
She's the one who needs God's help.
But the scandal of this moment isn't just the woman
Trying on feet of Jesus in this scene, the real scandal is Jesus saying to Simon, Simon, you wish that woman was more like you, but in reality, you'd be better off if you were more like her.
Because those who've been forgiven much love much.
those who understand their great need for forgiveness, that have received the love and grace of God cannot help but love other people in the same way.
Simon, you're not getting that.
It's like Simon is like this dry sponge.
Have you ever tried to wash dishes with a dry sponge and you pour water on it and just flows right off because it can't absorb the water?
The sponge is designed to absorb the water
and then pour the water out.
But if the stuns, it's much as dry and hard and it can't absorb the water.
This is Simon.
And this has been a Christian's who we know, I'm a sinner.
Yeah, I'm not as bad as them, but I'm a sinner.
And he's forgiven me, but I'm not as bad as them.
And why can't they, what do they get it?
Why can't they live like Jesus?
Because I'm living like Jesus.
And we don't even realize what we're doing, this lack of love.
Remember the first two weeks of my Christian life.
I still laugh at myself because when I met with the pastor, the first pastor I've met with, I made this statement to him.
You know, I really wasn't that bad of a sinner.
I literally said that.
And in my mind, I actually believed it because I was like, well, I didn't rob a bank.
I didn't kill anybody.
I didn't kill any crimes like I caught for, you know, like all that stuff, right?
But when I think back, I was like, driven by lust.
I was living in deceit.
I was self-centered.
I was proud.
People couldn't tell me anything.
I judge other people.
Oh, I was a mess.
But it took me a minute to realize I was a mess.
That I was in desperate need of the grace of God.
That I had been forgiven so much.
And once I realized I had been forgiven so much, then I could love people in a new way.
Anyone know what I'm talking about?
Anybody?
Okay.
I'm glad I'm not by myself here.
Those who understand they've been forgiven much, they love much.
So the question is not, how good are you?
And the question is, how much are you aware that you need God's love and God's grace?
Because the more aware you are of what you've received and the more able you are to love other people, those who know they've been forgiven much will love much.
And those who don't think they've been given for so much, well, they're only going to love a little.
the love of God, the love of Jesus demands a response.
If we've received this great love, then how can we love the people around us?
If we were the one lost sheep that Jesus came after, then how can we go after the one?
The Bible describes this like, the love of Christ compels us to go after people like Jesus came after us.
And so I want to tell you just a story of how that happened here.
It was a summer and a half ago, the summer of 24 that we
offered an invitation for people to follow Jesus, and there were three young girls who stood here, and I could tell right away, these girls were athletes.
I didn't know what sport they played, but I could tell they were athletes, and so I followed them in the new believer's room and prayed with them, and found out they'd play for a soccer team here called Fort Lauderdale United.
Much like Inner Miami, there's a female, a women's professional soccer team, and they play at Nova, and this girl Cam came to Jesus, and she kept bringing people on the soccer team to come to know Jesus, and so her teammates were getting saved and discipled,
I introduced her to a woman named Annie, who serves on our staff here.
And she started leading Bible studies and became the chaplain of the team.
And it was amazing to watch Cam and some of these soccer players that they just knew to the city, new to church, new to the idea of the gospel that Jesus came to save them.
They could have this new purpose as a son or daughter of God.
And so about half the team has come into this Bible study.
And then there was a girl this last year.
Her name is Jasmine.
Jasmine was raised in a Muslim family, and she was curious about Jesus.
And as the people on the team pursued her, well, she made a decision to follow Jesus.
She was so concerned about calling her dad and calling her brother, because when you're raised in Islam to say, hey, I've made a decision to follow Jesus, it feels like there's this separation, almost sometimes it's like it's death.
And God gave her the courage to tell her dad and her brother, I'm a Christian now.
I wanna follow Jesus.
And God gave such grace for that conversation.
But then one of my favorite moments of the year was this last September.
We invited the entire soccer team to our house.
So they were at a house and we were hanging out and Annie and I got to baptize Jasmine in our pool and the whole team got to witness what happens when someone goes after one person who's in desperate need of God's love.
This is what the gospel does.
And so I want you to think for a moment
Is there anyone in your life that you need to go after?
Like Jesus came after you.
You see the reason all the prostitutes and tax collectors are following Jesus because when one of them got saved, they wouldn't invite all their friends.
The first thing Matthew, the tax collector did when he got saved was to throw a party with all this tax collector friends and invite Jesus to be the guest.
Because that was, he understood, I've received the love of Jesus and now I gotta pass it on to someone else.
I cannot keep this to myself.
And so I just want to encourage you, keep praying for the people around you.
If God brought a name to your mind, invite them to church, send them a text this week.
Simple invitation could change someone's eternal destination.
Praying for people changes things, looking for opportunities.
This is what it means to love like Jesus.
Now here's the third idea.
Loving like Jesus always costs you something.
This is the part that we don't like.
John says, if you see someone
who's in need, and you have material possessions, the ability to help them, and you don't.
How could you say you have the love of God in you?
Don't be the person who says, praying for you, love you, and you go on your way.
Don't be that person because God didn't do that for you.
He didn't just say, I love you.
I'm with you.
He demonstrated that love by sacrificing, something that cost him something.
So if your love doesn't cost you anything,
pray that you would think more deeply.
Now, the greatest challenge to this type of love that's costly is, well, honestly, it's me because I'm always on my mind.
I like to think about myself.
I love that the gospel is personal for me.
Jesus died for me, for done.
And I am forgiven and my life is new and I have a purpose and I, me, myself, I, I, but listen, if it's just kept to yourself, then there's something
something missing, this idea that it's all just about me is probably one of the greatest ways that the Spirit of God is quenched in us, the sponge that absorbs all the water but won't pour it out anywhere else.
In fact, James, the brother of Jesus says this way, if anyone knows the good they ought to do and doesn't do it, it's sin for them.
Whoa, that's a strong line.
What James is saying is it's not just the things you stop doing as a Christian because you love Jesus that matter.
Like, okay, so I became a follower of Jesus.
So the idea that I can use my body sexually for whatever I wanted, that I needed to change and then just stop doing these certain behaviors.
And you stop looking at porn or stop drinking or stop cursing or stop lining to stop all these things.
And that's part of the Christian life.
It's saying, I'm not gonna just live however I want to anymore.
I'm gonna live under the authority of God's word because Jesus said those who love me will keep
my commandments, but there's a whole nother part of the gospel.
It's not what we stop doing.
It's what we start doing.
So I remember the first time as a Christian, I drove by someone who had broken down by the side of the road.
And I can say in my life, before Jesus, I never stopped to help someone who was broken down by the side of the road, not once.
And now I'm driving by and I feel this like conviction, like stop the car and help this person.
I'm like, I'm gonna hurry.
I got things to do.
And if I get all sweaty, and then I show up at this class or this meeting, that's not gonna be a good thing.
And all my mind was all about me.
But the spirit of God was like, stop the card, Doug.
And so in moments of my life, I started to do new things that I hadn't done before.
If you see someone in need, don't just drive by them, don't just pray for them.
Be blessed, be well fed, and God wants to use you to serve them.
Here's the question.
As a Christian, does your love cost you something?
Does the way you love other people?
Does it ever cost you?
Does it ever cost you three hours on a Saturday?
Does it ever cost you the time to turn your car around and help someone or go buy groceries and deliver them to your neighbor?
Sacrifice the time of money
of talents to serve other people that's not about you.
This is what it means to be loved by God and then love people around you, because love people love people.
Now, I think one of the things that's helped me over the years is sort of like a daily prayer that I pray.
And the daily prayer for years was this.
Lord, help me to show your love to one person today.
That was it.
Lord, help me to show your love to one person today, and then I just look and wait, maybe it's opening the door for someone, maybe it's a word of encouragement to someone, maybe it's a text, maybe it's, I'm gonna buy someone's coffee, I'm gonna find a small way to show the love of Jesus someone today, and maybe that leads to a conversation, maybe it doesn't, but that's not my job, but then I was challenged as I read this.
Not just to say, Lord, help me to show your love to someone today, but Lord, help me to show your love to someone today in a way that costs me something.
Oh, that's a little heavier for commitment.
But didn't Jesus do that for me?
You see, you're never going to love like Jesus until you realize how much you've been loved by Jesus.
And then when you realize that you can't help but reflexively, this is not a message that says, Christian, do better.
Christian, do more.
Christian, give more.
This is a message that says, stop and think about all that Jesus has done for you.
And then it will flow out of you.
The greatest commandment, love God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength.
And love your neighbors as you love yourself.
It flows from heaven to earth and through you to other people.
And so the biggest obstacle to this love is the unholy trinity, me, myself, and I.
But there is another obstacle, and Simon faces this obstacle in this story.
And the obstacle is this.
want to love or like to love or need to love people who are not like me.
I'm a righteous person.
I'm married with two kids.
I live a respectable life and a respectable house.
I'm in church every weekend, but that woman.
That woman?
Oh, no.
And so his target for who he can love and who he can share the love of God with is very small.
Now, church, I just want to talk to you as your pastor for a moment.
So it's about to get awkward and uncomfortable.
So just hang onto your heart.
Are there people, groups of people that are hard for you to love?
What do you mean, pastor?
I mean, just look at your social media feed or the things that you watch and the things that go through your mind, the things that world feeds you those.
Those libs, those liberal people, I can't stand them.
God get them.
Those MAGA people.
Those nationalist people.
Those people living that alternative lifestyle.
Those illegal immigrants.
Those government agents.
And what happens?
What happens when we allow lesser loyalty from lesser tribes to hijack the love that God has placed in our heart for other people?
We miss the greatest part of living the gospel.
And the people we're able to talk to then because we've alienated so many people by what we post and what we like and what we repost and what we say, we don't even realize that we're alienated.
Hundreds of people around us because of
The ideology of the week and our opinion about it, what our partisan political group demands for us to say out of allegiance, and we've lost our allegiance to Jesus, because let me ask again, how many sinners are here today?
Sinners are all that there are, and Jesus came to love and pursue sinners.
And if we are not cognizant of the way we alien the people by the way that we speak or the way that we post or the way that we talk about things, then we'll be completely lost like Simon.
The women like that are people that aren't like us need the love of Jesus because you're not going to change their mind on social media, but if Jesus gets a hold of their heart, Jesus has a way to change people because his love changes the heart.
Amen?
This is
And so I want you to think about the things that you post and what that says about the priority of your life, what's driving your life, because if it's to convince people of something that's not about the gospel and that distracts from the gospel, then maybe you're quenching the spirit of God and you're not even able because of what you know makes you feel superior to people.
And that superiority leads to judgment, which leads to alienation, which means they're never gonna listen to you share the gospel of Jesus
and they may never know.
And so we need to be thoughtful.
This lesson of Simon at the party is Jesus saying, you need to be more like that woman who knows she's a desperate need of Jesus than that man who thinks he's just been forgiven for a little bit.
Now maybe a harder question, not just the people or groups of people that are hard to love, but how about this?
I want you to think of a person in your life that's hard to love.
This one may hit a little closer to home, that person that you can't forgive.
That person who's another Christian, who is your brother or sister, but you would say, not only do I don't like them, honestly, I despise them.
And then your challenge with the gospel that says, if you say you love God and hate your brother, you're a liar.
And the love of God is not in you.
Boom.
If I can't forgive my brother, if I can't love people right now, I hate, listen, Jesus turned this all upside down.
He said, you've heard your whole life love those who are your friends and hate your enemies.
I say love your enemies and pray for them.
So if we're going to love like Jesus, what did he pray for those who are killing him?
Father, forgive them.
They don't know what they're doing.
Sinners, that's all that there is.
And if we see ourselves as different or better or above, we'll end up like Simon.
And you know, John who wrote this gospel and first, second, third John in Revelation, he was once a very judgmental person.
When Jesus met him, Jesus called John, he's like, you are a son of thunder.
It's black or white.
And when you listen to John's words about people, you'll see this gradual change from
I'm right and they're wrong, and God should strike these people down to this apostle of love.
Early on in the ministry, when he preached to a certain city and they didn't repent, he says, Jesus, call down fire from heaven and burn them all up.
God loved that, right?
They didn't listen to me destroy them.
And just like John, learn about love and patience.
There was a moment where James and John watched a guy casting out demons, but John's like, they're not part of our group, our little tribe.
So Jesus told them to stop.
And Jesus is like, no, if they're not against us, they're with us, stop judging.
John, the one who said, I want to be by the right hand of Jesus above all the other disciples.
Listen, he had made it all about him, but when he had learned to receive the love of God, it changed him.
And toward the end of his life, all he could write about is love.
the love of God, the love of Jesus, and what it does in your life to shape you.
And well, the last thing, or one of the last things he wrote in this letter first John chapter five verse 13 is this.
He said, I wrote all of this so that you could know you have eternal life.
Think about this, John's like, I took all the time to write this down.
not just for the generation that would read it, but for generations come.
All of this was written so that people could know they have eternal life because the message of the gospel is not get your act together and then God will forgive you and come for you.
No, the message of the gospel is you can't get your act together.
That's why Jesus came.
And this is what we call the good news.
So one last time, how many sinners in the house?
Okay.
The difference between
sinners who go to heaven and sinners who go to hell is an acknowledgement that you need to save.
It's asking for help.
That woman came into that party because she knew she needed help.
And so a lot of people in this room,
Though we are still sinners, our primary identity is we are sons and daughters of God.
We're children of God because we've been adopted because at our worst Jesus died for us.
This is the gospel to goodness.
We did not deserve it.
We cannot earn it.
It's not because of our merit.
So no one can boast before God and say, I did it my way or I was good enough.
No one can say that.
But we can all say I was lost and now I'm found.
I was blind and now I see I was in the darkness and now I'm in the light because Jesus came for me.
And so we have received the good news of the gospel.
We have received the love of God.
We have bowed our knee to say, God, I want to give my life to you.
I repent of my sins.
I want to follow you for the rest of my life.
And that moment of confession, that moment of decision, that moment of switching allegiance, it changed our eternal destination.
And there are sinners in this room who have not done that.
You might believe in God.
You might even pray to God when you're in trouble.
You might even thank God when things are good.
And you might even come to church because it feels good to be here.
because you feel a sense of peace and belonging and joy, and then you go back and leave your life on your own and come back next week.
And God has more than that because frankly, the Bible says even the devil believes in God and he trembles because he won't bow his knee.
He won't ask for forgiveness.
But in this present moment, there's an opportunity
to make a decision that will change your eternal destination and your life forever.
And it's to acknowledge I'm a sinner and I need to save your, and today I put my faith and trust in the only one who is worthy to put that trust in the one who came from heaven to earth to die for me.
His life was given for me what a costly sacrifice I received this gift of salvation.
And I believe the good news of the gospel that now it can be forgiven.
And when I die, I can go to heaven.
I wrote this down so that you could know you have eternal life.
And so here at Calvary, we have this moment where our entire church prays, for those who are invited, for those who are seeking, for those who have been far away for a long time to make a decision to follow Jesus.
So we're gonna play a closing song and we're gonna ask you, in this moment, if you know this is you, step into the aisle, walk this way and find the forgiveness and love of God being lavished on you, poured out on you.
If you know that's you, today's your day, now's the time, stand up,
walk this way, and we will celebrate with all of heaven as you come.
Come on.
are so honored to be a part of this moment for you right now.
This is a moment that you can celebrate the rest of your life.
November 16th, the day that you made a decision to follow Jesus, the day that Jesus forgave you of your sins, the day you confess that you're a sinner that you need to savor.
The day that your name was written in the book of life, the day that God poured his spirit into you.
You see, because you're about to say the most powerful words of whatever come out of your mouth, your entire life.
As you confess that Jesus is Lord, he's gonna lead your life and you believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead.
And as you confess the sin, the Bible says he's gonna separate the sin from you as far as the east is from the west.
The guilt of your sin, the shame of your sin, Jesus like I got that.
Already died for it.
Already paid for it.
And in return for that guilt, I'm gonna give you my peace.
and the power of my presence.
And I'm gonna allow you to experience redemption in so many different ways in your life.
This is just day one of following Jesus, so we're excited, listen.
I've been asking this question all day, if you're a sinner, raise your hands, just for fun, just raise your hands.
So here's the difference between those who raised their hand here and are going to heaven and those who aren't.
Those of us who know we're sinners, who say we're sinners, who ask Jesus, take my sin, forgive me.
We are saved sinners.
We are adopted now.
We are sons and daughters.
And so we get to celebrate this moment.
I just want to take one more moment.
I know we're running out of time, but I know there's probably a few people that your hearts are beating and you wish you were here.
Listen, you can be a sinner today that's saved by the grace of God.
He's waiting for you right now.
Today is your day.
Tomorrow is not promised.
And so if you know, I need to experience this forgiveness, this redemption.
We'd love to see you here.
He loves you so much.
Let him catch you.
And after you that have come, I'm just going to ask you to offer a prayer to God.
Repeat these words, it's not about the perfect words, but it's about a heart and mind that's ready to receive the good news of the gospel.
So say this out loud to God, say this, Lord God, I open my heart and I invite you inside.
Forgive my sin.
Today I repent.
Now fill me with your spirit and I will walk with you all the days of my life.
Pray this in Jesus' name.
Amen.
Amen, guys.
Congratulations.
And welcome to the family of God.
So listen, before you go back to your seats, I'm gonna ask you for five more minutes.
You just made the most important decision of your life.
So I'm gonna ask you to follow me and the group that's gonna lead you to that open door right there.
We're gonna give you a Bible as a gift and have a quick conversation and you'll be back with your friends in five minutes.
Church, can we give them a hand as they go this way, guys?
Follow me.
And church today, we're not gonna close in a song of worship, but we're gonna close in an opportunity to love each other.
So say it a high to a neighbor, a stranger, a friend, someone by you.
And if you need prayer, we have prayer counselors here.
We wanna love you by praying for you, but we pray today that you walk and live in the love of God.
God bless you and we'll see you guys later this week or next weekend.
Thanks for listening to today's message.
You know, here at Calvary, we believe a relationship with Jesus changes everything.
And if you've decided to follow Jesus, we'd love for you to text the word believe to 31352 so you can find out what it means to follow Christ.
And to learn more about Calvary and all of our campuses, you're free to visit calvaryftl.org.